---
id: SRC-260330-3333
type: blog
title: 3 Activities To Encourage Dynamic Strategic Thinking
url: >-
  https://www.strategyzer.com/library/3-activities-to-encourage-dynamic-strategic-thinking
date_ingested: '2026-03-31'
insight_count: 0
word_count: 435
---
Last year Alex Osterwalder and Yves Pigneur were recognized by Thinkers50 for their impact on strategy and innovation. Alex and Yves earned the #15 spot in what Financial Times considers the “Oscars of management thinking”.In his thank you note to our audience, Alex mentioned sitting alongside other influential strategic thinkers like Rita McGrath, Steve Blank, and Eric Ries. Together, this group represents a new wave of dynamic strategic thinking that will encourage organizations to be agile and constantly reinvent themselves. So how can companies prepare for a world where business models and value propositions will change regularly and dramatically? What can leadership do to tangibly discuss and capture where the company is now, and where the company needs to be?  There is pleasing today's customers and working on tomorrow's business.”Rita McGrathColumbia School of BusinessColumbia School of Business professor Rita McGrath spoke to us about the future of strategy and innovation. And in our chat, Rita shared her “portfolio model” which consists of three activities leadership can regularly conduct to evaluate strategic progress. 1. Start with looking at what you have gotYou will want to assess what the company is working on that’s part of today’s business. What projects or areas of the organization can be a candidate that could fuel the next generation of growth? And what are you currently working on that are potential options for the future? Are there existing resources or assets that have been overlooked, but could be repositioned to create new value for customers or the company? 2. Discuss where you want to beWhen you look out five or ten years, what are some of the things the organization wants to achieve? Where are you hoping to aim the company? From there you can work backwards and assess how it will apply to what the company is doing. 3. Then break it all down into day-to-day activitiesThis is where all areas of the organization will get involved, and it’s how your strategy can be implemented. You will have to translate your longer term strategy into day-to-day activities that will consist of experiments, learning, and iterations. These tasks will all move you toward validating or invalidating the future value your company hopes to create. You will be continually gathering evidence for the organization’s vision, and regularly need to assess how these new ideas or opportunities can get the company where it wants to be. Create growth or learn at scaleWe can show your company how to use our methodology to understand customers, leverage your assets, and grow. See our enterprise programs to help you achieve strategy and innovation success. Learn More
