---
id: SRC-260330-1B0D
type: blog
title: Ask Me Anything session with Alex & David
url: >-
  https://www.strategyzer.com/library/ask-me-anything-session-with-alex-and-david
date_ingested: '2026-03-31'
insight_count: 0
word_count: 418
---
September 2, 2020# min readNew business ideas look good on paper, but will they stand the test with reality? In Testing Business Ideas, we provide a comprehensive guide on how to run the right kind of experiments to test if your idea has traction.Ask questions on:How to design a strong experimentWhat is the right sequence of experiments I should be running How do I connect my experiments to de-risking my business idea What experiments do you like to useCo-authors Alex Osterwalder and David Bland answer your most pressing questions on Testing Business Ideas.No items found.related readsNo items found.About the speakersDr. Alex OsterwalderEntrepreneur, speaker, and business thinkerCo-founder of Strategyzer and creator of the Business Model Canvas. Alex has helped hundreds of organisations design and iterate their strategies using practical, visual tools that turn complex challenges into actionable moves.David J. BlandFounder & CEO of Precoil, author and advisorDavid J Bland is an author and founder based in Silicon Valley. In 2015, he founded Precoil to help companies find product market fit using lean startup, design thinking and business model innovation. David has helped validate new products and services at companies such as GE, Toyota, Adobe, HP and Behr. David is the co-author of Testing Business Ideas, a Wiley business book with Alexander Osterwalder.‍by Dr. Alex OsterwalderDavid J. BlandSeptember 2, 2020Download your free copy of this whitepaper nowNever miss a Strategyzer webinarSubscribe to receive email notifications for our upcoming webinars directly in your inbox.123related readsExplore more innovation insights in our knowledge libraryRead our blogNo items found.Get Strategyzer updates straight in your inboxSubscribe to receive email notifications about upcoming events, news, and more.Thanks for signing up!September 2, 2020# min readNew business ideas look good on paper, but will they stand the test with reality? In Testing Business Ideas, we provide a comprehensive guide on how to run the right kind of experiments to test if your idea has traction.Ask questions on:How to design a strong experimentWhat is the right sequence of experiments I should be running How do I connect my experiments to de-risking my business idea What experiments do you like to useCo-authors Alex Osterwalder and David Bland answer your most pressing questions on Testing Business Ideas.related readsNo items found.New business ideas look good on paper, but will they stand the test with reality? In Testing Business Ideas, we provide a comprehensive guide on how to run the right kind of experiments to test if your idea has traction.Thanks for your interest in Ask Me Anything session with Alex & David
