---
id: SRC-260330-359E
type: blog
title: Biz4Kids - Join Our Business Comic For Kids
url: 'https://www.strategyzer.com/library/biz4kids-join-our-business-comic-for-kids'
date_ingested: '2026-03-31'
insight_count: 0
word_count: 364
---
April 10, 2018# min readToday we launched a Kickstarter campaign for Biz4Kids, a fun and entertaining comic for kids that also educates them about business and entrepreneurship. Join us and participate. Business and entrepreneurship should NOT be reserved for adults only. I believe that business and entrepreneurship appreciation and education should happen as early as possible. Showing kids how business works at an early age allows them to take advantage of the countless opportunities that exist in today’s world.That’s why, together with my kids and Holger Nils Pohl’s visual team, we created Biz4Kids: a fun and entertaining comic with great stories that also convey the fundamentals of business.Learn More HereNo items found.related readsNo items found.About the speakersDr. Alex OsterwalderEntrepreneur, speaker, and business thinkerCo-founder of Strategyzer and creator of the Business Model Canvas. Alex has helped hundreds of organisations design and iterate their strategies using practical, visual tools that turn complex challenges into actionable moves.by Dr. Alex OsterwalderApril 10, 2018Download your free copy of this whitepaper nowNever miss a Strategyzer webinarSubscribe to receive email notifications for our upcoming webinars directly in your inbox.123related readsExplore more innovation insights in our knowledge libraryRead our blogNo items found.Get Strategyzer updates straight in your inboxSubscribe to receive email notifications about upcoming events, news, and more.Thanks for signing up!April 10, 2018# min readToday we launched a Kickstarter campaign for Biz4Kids, a fun and entertaining comic for kids that also educates them about business and entrepreneurship. Join us and participate. Business and entrepreneurship should NOT be reserved for adults only. I believe that business and entrepreneurship appreciation and education should happen as early as possible. Showing kids how business works at an early age allows them to take advantage of the countless opportunities that exist in today’s world.That’s why, together with my kids and Holger Nils Pohl’s visual team, we created Biz4Kids: a fun and entertaining comic with great stories that also convey the fundamentals of business.Learn More Hererelated readsNo items found.Today we launched a Kickstarter campaign for Biz4Kids, a fun and entertaining comic for kids that also educates them about business and entrepreneurship. Join us and participate. Thanks for your interest in Biz4Kids: join our 'business comic for Kids' campaign
