---
id: SRC-260330-9D1F
type: blog
title: Quick Essays
url: 'https://chamath.substack.com/p/quick-essays'
date_ingested: '2026-03-30'
insight_count: 0
site_name: Chamath Palihapitiya
publish_date: '2023-12-08T22:19:58+00:00'
word_count: 385
---
Quick Essay: Large Language Models, How to Train Them, and xAI’s Grok·January 31, 2024Read our AI Deep Dive When OpenAI released ChatGPT in November 2022, it took the world by storm, reaching over a million users in only 5 days. This kind of viral attention was previously unheard of in AI, driven by how closely the underlying language model seemed to replicate human intelligence.Quick Essay: A Short History of OpenAI ·November 20, 2023On Friday, OpenAI ousted its co-founder Sam Altman as CEO. While OpenAI cites a lack of consistent candor in Altman’s dealings with the board as the key reason for his removal, there is widespread speculation about other motives behind his termination. These range from disputes concerning the profit vs nonprofit motives of the company to the discovery o…Quick Essay: The Federal Reserve and Critical Moments in U.S. Monetary Policy ·November 15, 2023In 2021, the U.S. missed a once-in-a-generation opportunity to refinance its national debt at near zero-rates. With soaring interest rates and a looming debt storm approaching, the actions of the Treasury and Federal Reserve have never been more important. We decided to look back at the history of monetary policy from the establishment of the Federal Re…The Case for Big Action to Regulate Artificial Intelligence·May 9, 2023This essay originally appeared on The Information. In technology circles, people balk at the mere mention of government regulation. The naysayers argue it interferes with innovation and is a bad byproduct of big government. But history tells a different story. Transparent, accountable and expert oversight—even when implemented late or ineffectively at fir…2022 Annual Letter·April 4, 2023Social Capital Performance Summary To the supporters and friends of Social Capital: This is the fifth of our annual letters in which we discuss our observations and reflections of the year passed, how they’ve shaped our investment views, and other ideas on technology, markets, and our mission to build the future.Higher Rates Will Lead to the Next Generation of Great Tech Startups·January 26, 2023More than 13 years of zero-interest-rate policy in the U.S. has now come to an end. With sticky inflation, climbing interest rates, a focus on near-term cash flow, and potentially a looming recession on the horizon, the outlook for many technology companies appears bleak. In response, the risk appetites of U.S. VC funds have shrunk dramatically, with ca…
