---
id: SRC-260329-1125
type: blog
title: "Saudi Arabia Plans $40 Billion Push Into Artificial Intelligence\U0001F4B0, What Is A \"Good\" VC?\U0001F4A1, SaaS Growth Report☁️ & more!"
url: 'https://www.thevccorner.com/p/saudi-arabia-plans-40-billion-push'
date_ingested: '2026-03-30'
insight_count: 0
site_name: The VC Corner
publish_date: '2024-03-24T14:30:14+00:00'
word_count: 477
---
Welcome to The VC Corner, your weekly dose of Venture Capital and Startups to keep you up and running! 🚀 Fundingstack sponsors this week’s newsletter:Raising capital is hard. Make it exponentially easier with Fundingstack, the all-new platform for VCs, investment bankers, advisors and consultants from the makers of Foundersuite which has helped companies around the world raise $17 Billion.  Search a database of 216k investors, including LPs, family offices, funds of funds, endowments, trusts, wealth managers, VCs, and angels. Manage your pipeline using Investor CRM. Send out pitch decks, investor updates and follow up emails from the platform. Use the Virtual Data Room to manage DD, and more. Sign up today at Fundingstack and use code "VCCorner" to get 30% off your first 3 months. No contracts, cancel anytime.Saudi Arabia Plans $40 Billion Push Into Artificial Intelligence 💰 [The New York Times]OTB Ventures has closed its $185m fund with NATO Innovation Fund as an LP 🤝 [sifted]Italy to set up AI fund of 1 billion euros, PM says 🤖 [Reuters]Y Combinator Is Raising Billions In New Funding 🚀 [Forbes]Reddit pops 48% in NYSE debut after selling shares at top of range 🎉 [CNBC]Michael Seibel Steps Down as YC’s Managing Director/CEO 👋🏽 [Y Combinator]World Fund closes first €300M climate tech fund, seeking to follow on and back hardware 🔋 [TechCrunch]What Is A "Good" VC? 💡 [Elad Gil]Is Perplexity’s AI Dethroning Google with Its Own Data? 🤔 [contxto]AI infrastructure explained 🔧 [salesforce ventures]How the Fed and Interest Rates Impact Startup Operators 🏦 [CJ Gustafson]When your cap table makes your startup uninvestable 💔 [techcrunch]High-quality principles to support your Product-Led-Growth 🌟 [Kate Syuma]Angel Hacks: 3 Myths Founders Believe In and You Should Not 😇 [Cintia Mano]Letters to a Young Investor: Ho Nam 👶 [Mario Gabriele]India Venture Capital 2024 📈 [Bain & Company]SaaS Growth Report: How SaaS Businesses Grow From Zero to $30M ARR and Beyond ☁️ [ChartMogul]Consumer Trend Report 🛍️ [Forerunner Ventures]Global Summit 2024 | Paris | Mar 25-28HEC Fireside Chat x Sequoia Capital | Remote | Mar 26Startup Survival Series: Disruption? Not What You Think | Remote | Mar 28Startup Competition - RAISE Summit 2024 | Paris | Apr 8GP/LP Roundtable: State of European VC Fundraising | Remote | Apr 10The AI Rabbit Hole | San Francisco | Apr 19SF Climate Week | San Francisco | Apr 21-27How To Run A Pilot: Skan.AI | Remote | Apr 16AI Conference for Founders and Business Leaders | Remote | Apr 19AVPN Global Conference 2024 | Abu Dhabi | Apr 23-25VC Platform - Global Summit ‘24 | New York | Apr 24-26Investing in Tomorrow - Advancing Technology & Society | San Jose, California | Apr 25Plug and Play Italy Summit 2024 | Milan | May 16The LP/VC relations event | Vienna | Jun 1-6Silicon Valley Summit 2024 | Jun 11-13Super Climate | New York | Sep 24sifted summit | London | Oct 2-3
