---
id: SRC-260330-FCA1
type: blog
title: The Mom Test by Rob Fitzpatrick
author: Rob Fitzpatrick
url: 'https://www.momtestbook.com/'
date_ingested: '2026-03-31'
insight_count: 0
site_name: The Mom Test
word_count: 443
---
The quick and easy handbook about how to get more learning and more sales out of your customer conversations. Even when everyone is lying to you.Stop wasting your timeEntrepreneurs are universally busy, yet odds are high that you're wasting huge amounts of time sitting in pointless meetings and building unnecessary features. Take two hours to read this book and you'll see it repaid tenfold.Practical, not academicThe world doesn't need another framework or theory. The Mom Test skips all that and gets to the hands-on challenges. How to avoid biased feedback? How to write an email that makes people want to talk to you? How to figure out whether someone is really going to buy? It's all in here.Testimonials"If you aren‘t sure about how to ask the "right" questions to ascertain whether there is real customer pain, the best book on the subject is called The Mom Test. I highly recommend it."Carlos EspinalPartner, Seedcamp and author, Fundraising Field Guide"Ounce for ounce, there‘s no better way to learn what customers want and will buy than this wonderful little book. If you want your new product or new business to succeed, start here."John MullinsAuthor, The New Business Road Test, Getting to Plan B, and The Customer-Funded Business"Read this short book! We believe this is the best and most accessible book for entrepreneurs who are seeking product market fit."Simon MurdochPartner, Episode1About the AuthorRob FitzpatrickI've been an entrepreneur for 10 years, running both bootstrapped and VC-backed companies. I'm a YCombinator alum (summer '07), have raised funding in the US and UK, and have built products used globally by brands like Sony and MTV.I'm a programmer who was forced - like so many others - into a customer-facing role at my first company. And while I knew I was supposed to talk to customers, none of the books about sales or Customer Development seemed to help me figure out how to actually do it properly.The Mom Test is that missing handbook, and is now used as a core part of the curriculum at universities like Harvard and UCL, EU startup accelerators like Seedcamp and Microsoft Ventures, and businesses like Shopify and Pact Coffee.Author photo by dantaylorphotography.comLearn how to talk to customers and get reliable, non-biased feedback on your business or product before it exists.1.5 hours of videoThe course covers all aspects of talking to customers, including where conversations go wrong, how to ask questions that provide real data, and how to transition into sales.4 group workshopsIdentify mistakes in your current process and build a simple, sustainable learning plan that you spread across your whole organization.More from Rob FitzpatrickPractical guides on running great workshops and writing nonfiction that sells itself.
