---
id: SRC-260329-45EA
type: blog
title: 'The Impact of Founder Personalities on Company Success '
url: 'https://www.thevccorner.com/p/the-impact-of-founder-personalities'
date_ingested: '2026-03-30'
insight_count: 0
site_name: The VC Corner
publish_date: '2024-05-25T09:10:47+00:00'
word_count: 348
---
Traditionally, startup success has been linked to factors like industry, location, and the economy. Recently, there's been a growing focus on the internal dynamics of startups, particularly the impact of the founding team. Factors such as previous experiences, network connections, and team size have been explored, but the role of founders' personalities is still largely unknown.Oxford research shows that founders' personality traits are crucial for a startup’s success. A study of 26,781 global startups found that founders' Big Five personality traits are significantly different from those of the general population. Successful entrepreneurs tend to be adventurous, enjoy being the center of attention, and have high energy levels.Interestingly, there isn't a single "Founder-type" personality. Instead, there are six distinct types, with teams made up of a "Hipster, Hacker, and Hustler" being twice as likely to succeed. The study also highlights the benefits of having diverse personalities in the founding team, suggesting that this diversity could be crucial for the success of startups.Today, I’m sharing the key takeaways, findings, and insights from this study and my own experiences on the importance and impact of founder personalities on company success.Contents of the article:Founders' personality traits significantly influence their decision-making processes. Highly open people tend to embrace new ideas and take calculated risks, which can lead to innovative solutions and business strategies. They are also more likely to pursue unconventional paths and think outside the box, which can be crucial in a competitive startup environment. In contrast, highly conscientious founders may focus more on meticulous planning and execution, ensuring that decisions are well thought out and sustainable over the long term. Their detail-oriented nature helps them foresee potential pitfalls and establish solid processes. In addition, extroverted founders often excel at networking and garnering support, which can be critical during processes such as fundraising.Thanks to your support, we’ve reached 28,000 subscribers in the 6 first months of The VC Corner, and we're just getting started 🎉To celebrate, we're offering the first 100 users who redeem the offer a 20% lifetime discount to become a premium subscriber. Don't miss out ;)Get 20% off forever
