---
id: SRC-260330-E72C
type: blog
title: The Global Energy Transition
url: 'https://chamath.substack.com/p/the-global-energy-transition'
date_ingested: '2026-03-30'
insight_count: 0
site_name: Chamath Palihapitiya
publish_date: '2023-12-04T18:47:01+00:00'
word_count: 389
---
In 2020, I made a personal commitment to learn and invest in the energy transition and clean tech / climate change initiatives. I connected with a friend of mine who was a Senior Partner at McKinsey who told me a little secret: when folks like Bill Gates want to learn important new topics, McKinsey helps to educate them by bringing in their Partners to do teach-ins.Over the next many months, I decided to do the same. They helped teach me a lot, but it also cost me more than $2mm! So what do you do if you don’t have this kind of money to spend on an ongoing basis? How do we feed our curiosity and continue to learn about the important things that are going on in the world?Every month, I will publish a deep dive into a sector that I think is important to understand the world today. These fall into five themes:Deep TechEnergy TransitionHealthcare & Life SciencesEconomic AnalysisSocio-Political TrendsMy first deep-dive into the Global Energy Transition is available to you today if you want to learn with me. This is split into two slide decks, with companion podcasts to introduce the material. The first is a comprehensive overview of the climate problem, why it exists, where we are today, and potential solutions to fix it.0:00-18:39Audio playback is not supported on your browser. Please upgrade.The second is a deep-dive into the Inflation Reduction Act, a key piece of U.S. climate legislation with massive implications for energy transition sectors.0:00-20:32Audio playback is not supported on your browser. Please upgrade.You can read and listen to our deep dives today using the audio files and PDFs attached. Going forward, future deep-dives will be available to paid subscribers. If enough people care about this and subscribe, we will invest those revenues to hire more researchers to help me publish more content. We will also look to our subscribers to influence what we research and read out to everyone. Future Deep Dives:Disclaimer: The views and opinions expressed above are current as of the date of this document and are subject to change without notice. Materials referenced above will be provided for educational purposes only. None of the above will include investment advice, a recommendation or an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy, any securities or investment products.ShareNo posts
